---
layout: layouts/index
title: Great Grey Brains 
subtitle: "A Short Fiction Anthology"
class: index
---
Tracking how our favorite characters grow is one among many subtle layers of complexity in storytelling that facilitates new questions with every viewing, listening, or reading, and destabilizes the notion of a work’s singular meaning. One way writers probe the reader to track growth is by employing unreliable narrative, primarily through the first-person perspective of an unreliable narrator. However, during the so-called Golden Age of television many consumers have become accustomed to, if not ravenous for, these questions in the context of  the anti-hero. This anthology is inspired by the modern popularity of the anti-hero archetype in television and film, and aimed at an audience that may not have exposure to literature beyond what they have read in school, enjoys the complexities that arise from unreliability in static characters with dynamic personalities, but may be exhausted by the power fantasy that often accompanies modern anti-heroes.

Beginning with [***Saving Sourdi***](/stories/saving-sourdi) and [***The Lesson***](/stories/the-lesson), readers will likely recognize the heroic pursuit of each respective narrator, but will notice the perspective has shifted to a child’s. Instead of being easily disarmed by the inability to relate to the spectacle and scale with which a character's decisions impact the universe they inhabit, the story is told from the universally relatable experience of childhood. In this way, I hope the reader will employ a certain authority in questioning whether each respective narrator changes throughout the story, and how their heroic disposition suits them.

More often than not, unreliability is a function of a first-person narrative, but the midway story [***Puppy***](/stories/puppy) was selected as an example of an unreliable narrative by employing a stream of consciousness third-person narrative. The key difference between stream of consciousness and first-person is that the narrator is somehow capable of reporting to the reader what characters are thinking, and how they are feeling, without representing the character directly. Readers should be able to identify similarities in how the round characters in the story are vulnerable, and the narrative voice feels intimate and personal.

Concluding with [***A Better Place***](/stories/a-better-place) and [***Car Crash While Hitchhiking***](/stories/car-crash-while-hitchhiking), readers are presented with narrators whose pursuits stray further from heroic, and whose motives are increasingly questionable. Readers will be prepared to recognize the functionality of fragmented timelines and unrealistic acquisitions of critical information in producing unreliability, and affecting the overall interpretation of each respective narrator. By the end of this anthology, readers will not only be capable of tracking when characters lie to one another, but also when they lie directly to the reader. 

My hope is that this collection of contemporary short stories serves as a compelling introduction to characters who are static and unreliable, and whose stakes are dire, but where power dynamics, and the scale to which their actions impact other people in the universe they inhabit, are not driving the narrative. Though the raw data of these stories may not resemble that of the modern anti-hero, I believe these five stories are a powerful springboard for applying an interest in the fundamental question—are people capable of change?—to characters whose growth, or lack thereof, primarily affects themselves.  It can be easy to keep the modern anti-hero at arms length when their circumstances feel so intangible. By allowing something other than astronomical power and moral relativism to disarm us, we stand to expand our empathy and respect for the work that it takes for people to grow meaningfully.